---
slug: kickoff 
title: Kick Off gipfeli.io 
authors: [sabrina, lukas]
tags: [general]
---

In order to kick things off, we decided to start with a very general kick off meeting.

This meeting was not yet part of any sprint, but rather designed as a setup-meeting for all things to come.

<!--truncate-->

The following points were discussed.

## Time tracking

We decided to use the [Clockify.me](https://clockify.me/) service. This service allows time tracking with detailed
descriptions and in various projects. This will allow us to keep track of our invested time as well as how much time we
spend developing and time in meetings.

## Prototype content

As a first milestone, we see the tech review in early June. The goal there is to have a walking skeleton with most of
the architectural decisions set in stone. As such, we agreed on the following features that should be working in a
prototypical fashion:

* Staging Environment with auto deployment
* Login for existing users (without management functions and profile functions)
* List of existing tours
* CRUD functionality for tours
* Offline functionality (at least conceptually, does not have to work yet)

This set of features will allow us to showcase most of our application and architectural ideas, and it requires to have
a working infrastructure ready. We also see the offline functionality as one of the most critical aspects, so we want to
focus on that as well.

## Development process and timeplans

As per our thesis agreement, we will use an agile, Scrum-inspired approach. Therefore, we agreed on the following
cornerstones:

* Sprints are 2 weeks long, leading us to 12 sprints in total.
* We do not use the product owner/scrum master roles explicitly, since this does not really make sense in a team of two.
  However, we will jointly manage our backlog both from a product owner and developer perspective, and we will help each
  other to facilitate our development.
* We will use a modified subset of the typical Scrum ceremonies. They are at fixed intervals so as to guarantee a degree
  of consistency.
    * `Weekly`: Serves as our daily - we will discuss what has been achieved, what is being worked on and where issues
      arose. This meeting is **timeboxed to 20 minutes** and is scheduled to happen **each Tuesday at 18:00**.
    * `Sprint ending`: At the end of each sprint, we will hold a **1-hour long** meeting covering the sprint review,
      retrospective and planning for the next sprint. This meeting will be held on Tuesday as well, bi-weekly, whenever
      a new sprint starts.
* We use [a shared GitHub Project](https://github.com/orgs/gipfeli-io/projects/1) with both repository-specific tickets
  and overall tickets. They are organized in several buckets and will be used for our sprintplanning ("iterations" in
  GitHub projects). The following labels exist:

    * `Backlog`: All tickets that come up during development or that have not been planned yet
    * `Sprint Backlog`: Tickets that are used for a given iteration (and have the iteration label attached)
    * `In Progress`: Tickets that are in development
    * `PR pending`: Tickets that are in technical review
    * `Testing`: Tickets that can be tested during the sprint review, i.e. they are already merged to staging
    * `Done`: Tickets that have been tested and can be deployed as a release artifact.

## Various technical discussions and decisions

* We will be using [Material UI](https://mui.com/) for frontend components
* We will try to use [next-auth](https://next-auth.js.org/) and use [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) as an identity provider.
* We will try to use OpenAPI sepcifications and use
  the [corresponding nest.js plugin](https://docs.nestjs.com/openapi/introduction) for auto-generated docs.
* As we have two repositories for frontend and backend, we should discuss how we handle shared types. Possibilities are
  custom npm packages or no sharing at all.

## Further unsorted notes

* Offline functionality: incomplete tours (i.e. offline tours without maps) shall be designated as such
* Users shall have two roles - administrators and users.

## Questions for supervisor

* Can we opensource our code? This would allow for more flexibility in the free plan on GitHub.com
* Can we use Auth0?
* What is required in terms of documentation, meetings, milestones, definition of done?
* Best practices for sharing types across repositories?