---
slug: development-meeting-7
title: "Development Meeting 7"
authors: [sabrina, lukas, tobias]
tags: [general]
---

We showed Tobias the current status of the work and talked about form validation. He asked us
if we validate both in the front and backend. We initially had the idea to do both, but he 
advised us to do it in the backend only so we don't have duplicate validation logic.

Tobias asked us to provide him with an easy way to set up the application, so he does not have to
invest too much time to let it run locally.

