<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<rss version="2.0" xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" xmlns:content="http://purl.org/rss/1.0/modules/content/">
    <channel>
        <title>gipfeli.io Blog</title>
        <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes</link>
        <description>gipfeli.io Blog</description>
        <lastBuildDate>Tue, 16 Aug 2022 00:00:00 GMT</lastBuildDate>
        <docs>https://validator.w3.org/feed/docs/rss2.html</docs>
        <generator>https://github.com/jpmonette/feed</generator>
        <language>en</language>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Sprint 9 Review & Sprint 10 Planning]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/sprint-9-review-sprint-10-planning.md</link>
            <guid>sprint-9-review-sprint-10-planning.md</guid>
            <pubDate>Tue, 16 Aug 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[We were able to finish the gpx upload and start on some design stuff like the logo and color palettes.]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>We were able to finish the gpx upload and start on some design stuff like the logo and color palettes. </p><h1>Sprint Planning</h1><p>We added two tickets from the nice to have pile and some maintenance stuff.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="sprint-goals">Sprint Goals:<a class="hash-link" href="#sprint-goals" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>Finish categories for tour</li><li>Add some integration tests</li><li>Add markdown to description</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="retro">Retro<a class="hash-link" href="#retro" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><p>We are almost feature complete and super happy about the current state of the application. üöÄüöÄ</p>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>sprint</category>
            <category>planning</category>
            <category>review</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Development Meeting 8]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/development-meeting-8</link>
            <guid>development-meeting-8</guid>
            <pubDate>Tue, 09 Aug 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[We talked about the finished tickets and the work that is currently in progress. Tobias had some input about the documentation]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>We talked about the finished tickets and the work that is currently in progress. Tobias had some input about the documentation
of our current setup. At the moment we document the application components for the version running on the server only
(see <a href="/docs/infrastructure/basics">Infrastructure Basics</a>).
He advised us to do the documentation of the components for the local environment too (incl. the new docker setup).
We created a ticket for this: <a href="https://github.com/gipfeli-io/documentation/issues/19" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://github.com/gipfeli-io/documentation/issues/19</a></p><p>Questions:</p><p>How do we need to provide the hourly report?</p><ul><li>Tobias would prefer the hours summarized by sprint. </li><li>See ticket "Export working hours" on project board (unfortunately there is no direct link we can provide): <a href="https://github.com/orgs/gipfeli-io/projects/1/views/1#" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">https://github.com/orgs/gipfeli-io/projects/1/views/1#</a></li></ul>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>general</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Sprint 8 Review & Sprint 9 Planning]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/sprint-8-review-sprint-9-planning.md</link>
            <guid>sprint-8-review-sprint-9-planning.md</guid>
            <pubDate>Tue, 02 Aug 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[The offline functionality could be finished and the bugs we found during testing could be resolved. üéâüéâ We could also]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>The offline functionality could be finished and the bugs we found during testing could be resolved. üéâüéâ We could also
finish implementing the admin functionality and add validation to our forms. :) Resetting a password is also possible now.
This means we reached all the sprint goals from sprint 8! ü•êü•ê</p><h1>Sprint Planning</h1><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="sprint-goals">Sprint Goals:<a class="hash-link" href="#sprint-goals" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>Finish GPX Import</li><li>Finish creation of logo</li><li>Finish creation of icons</li><li>Create a themes draft</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="retro">Retro<a class="hash-link" href="#retro" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><p>The sprint was very productive, and we could finish a big portion of the workload. :)</p>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>sprint</category>
            <category>planning</category>
            <category>review</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Development Meeting 7]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/development-meeting-7</link>
            <guid>development-meeting-7</guid>
            <pubDate>Tue, 26 Jul 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[We showed Tobias the current status of the work and talked about form validation. He asked us]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>We showed Tobias the current status of the work and talked about form validation. He asked us
if we validate both in the front and backend. We initially had the idea to do both, but he
advised us to do it in the backend only so we don't have duplicate validation logic.</p><p>Tobias asked us to provide him with an easy way to set up the application, so he does not have to
invest too much time to let it run locally.</p>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>general</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Sprint 7 Review & Sprint 8 Planning]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/sprint-7-review-sprint-8-planning.md</link>
            <guid>sprint-7-review-sprint-8-planning.md</guid>
            <pubDate>Thu, 21 Jul 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[We could finish the gps extraction of the images, and the images are now shown on the map. As an extra feature we implemented a]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>We could finish the gps extraction of the images, and the images are now shown on the map. As an extra feature we implemented a
cluster feature that clusters the images, so they don't clutter the map. üéâ After a discussion with Tobi we decided to re-write
the offline feature. It is on a good way but unfortunately not yet finished.</p><h1>Sprint Planning</h1><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="sprint-goals">Sprint Goals:<a class="hash-link" href="#sprint-goals" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>Finish the admin panel</li><li>Finish offline functionality (this time for realü•ê)</li><li>Password reset</li><li>Validations (Forms, overall)</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="retro">Retro<a class="hash-link" href="#retro" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><p>We are happy with the sprint and think we made good progress with the must-have features.</p>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>sprint</category>
            <category>planning</category>
            <category>review</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Development Meeting 6]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/development-meeting-6</link>
            <guid>development-meeting-6</guid>
            <pubDate>Tue, 12 Jul 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[We did a quick demo and showed the image upload incl. the coordinate extraction from the exif information. We also showed]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>We did a quick demo and showed the image upload incl. the coordinate extraction from the exif information. We also showed
the offline synchronization and discussed the best way to make the offline mode as intuitive for the user as possible.
Tobias had some ideas that we will integrate in the current work.</p><p>We also had some questions:</p><ul><li>Image upload context =&gt; is it fine that we have another context there?<ul><li>Multiple contexts are absolutely ok. There is no limit.</li></ul></li><li>Public google bucket =&gt; is this ok?<ul><li>Yes, this is ok :)</li></ul></li><li>Frontend testing =&gt; how much do we need? what does make sense?<ul><li>We should ask ourselves what the most complex component is and test this.</li><li>Services should also be tested (unit tests)</li><li>Test coverage in frontend is not really useful</li></ul></li></ul>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>general</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Sprint 6 Review & Sprint 7 Planning]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/sprint-6-review-sprint-7-planning.md</link>
            <guid>sprint-6-review-sprint-7-planning.md</guid>
            <pubDate>Tue, 05 Jul 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[We could add a simple image upload when creating/editing tours. This is the base for adding the geo referenced upload of tour images.]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>We could add a simple image upload when creating/editing tours. This is the base for adding the geo referenced upload of tour images.
The offline functionality is also implemented in a basic form (without synchronizing to the backend). We think we are still on track with
the main features.</p><h1>Sprint Planning</h1><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="sprint-goals">Sprint Goals:<a class="hash-link" href="#sprint-goals" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>Add synchronization for offline tours</li><li>Finish offline functionality</li><li>Add support for geo referenced image upload</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="retro">Retro<a class="hash-link" href="#retro" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><p>We are happy with the sprint and think we made good progress with the must-have features.</p>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>sprint</category>
            <category>planning</category>
            <category>review</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Development Meeting 5]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/development-meeting-5</link>
            <guid>development-meeting-5</guid>
            <pubDate>Tue, 28 Jun 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[This bi-weekly meeting was to show Tobias, our supervisor, our current progress in the form of a demo.]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>This bi-weekly meeting was to show Tobias, our supervisor, our current progress in the form of a demo.</p><p>In the demo we showed</p><ul><li>The current status of the offline functionality</li><li>The user on-boarding process</li></ul><p>We also talked about auto synchronizing offline data and the options we have. As well as our use of the service worker and IndexedDB.</p>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>general</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Sprint 5 Review & Sprint 6 Planning]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/sprint-5-review-sprint-6-planning.md</link>
            <guid>sprint-5-review-sprint-6-planning.md</guid>
            <pubDate>Tue, 21 Jun 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[We could finish the signup process and get a good overview of the offline functionality.]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>We could finish the signup process and get a good overview of the offline functionality.
The offline functionality is also already started and we can continue with this so it hopefully
will be finished at the end of Sprint 6.</p><h1>Sprint Planning</h1><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="sprint-goals">Sprint Goals:<a class="hash-link" href="#sprint-goals" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>Finish offline functionality for tours (without user login)</li><li>Add simple image upload to tour (without coordinate information)</li><li>Password reset</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="retro">Retro<a class="hash-link" href="#retro" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>I'm (Sabrina) not entirely happy with the status of the offline functionality. I wanted to have the tour list offline functionality finished.</li><li>However, we are very happy about the overall state.</li></ul>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>sprint</category>
            <category>planning</category>
            <category>review</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Thesis interim review]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/thesis-interim-review</link>
            <guid>thesis-interim-review</guid>
            <pubDate>Thu, 09 Jun 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[We had to provide a short video where we show the current status of the project and some project specific information.]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>We had to provide a short video where we show the current status of the project and some project specific information.
This was analysed by some professors at the university. In a short feedback round they gave us some input and asked us questions
if something was unclear to them.</p><p>Below is the feedback of the review team:</p><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="ca">C.A.<a class="hash-link" href="#ca" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h4><ul><li>Good state, great code quality</li><li>Don't use any =&gt; use specific types correctly</li><li>Typing does not need undefined/null check</li></ul><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="stm">St.M.<a class="hash-link" href="#stm" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h4><ul><li>Good status</li><li>Risk analysis not available</li><li>Few tests in backend</li></ul><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="dt">D.T.<a class="hash-link" href="#dt" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h4><ul><li>Thinks our procedures are good and likes the app skeleton</li><li>Few tests in backend.</li><li>Measure test coverage with Sonar.</li><li>Adjust DOD with test coverage percentage.</li><li>Documentation scope very good, understandable, Decision Log great</li><li>Roadmap missing =&gt; add it to documentation (not very detailed as e.g. backlog)</li><li>Datamodel should be model-driven, not code-driven --&gt; add to Documentation.</li></ul><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="ak">A.K.<a class="hash-link" href="#ak" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h4><ul><li>Overall impression very good</li><li>Thrilled with documentation. It is clearly laid out. Decision Log great. Good balance of documenting too much and not enough.</li><li>Basic architecture concept good. Layer on own instance too much, but ok.</li><li>Flutter.js or Electron.js would maybe have been a good option? =&gt; not the way we wanted to go</li><li>Gap analysis made between hikr.org etc. =&gt; as matrix</li><li>GPX upload as a future feature? =&gt; maybe list as next steps</li></ul><h4 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="lb">L.B.<a class="hash-link" href="#lb" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h4><ul><li>Clean software engineering in all areas</li><li>Risk planning for next features should be done</li><li>Good task prio</li><li>Documentation in good condition</li><li>Include technical challenges/lessons learned in doc =&gt; Typeorm,</li><li>Geo photo upload next to offline functionality</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="take-home-message">Take home message<a class="hash-link" href="#take-home-message" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>More Tests in general (especially backend)</li><li>Add EsLint rules to prevent using any / clean up repo</li><li>Configure sonar to display the test coverage. Define test coverage in DoD with percentage instead of just saying "Tests written"</li><li>Add Roadmap to show plan of future features</li><li>Add Gap analysis as a matrix to documentation</li><li>Add page for lessons learned and challenges</li></ul>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>general</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Sprint 4 Review & Sprint 5 Planning]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/sprint-4-review-sprint-5-planning.md</link>
            <guid>sprint-4-review-sprint-5-planning.md</guid>
            <pubDate>Tue, 07 Jun 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[It was a very productive sprint. We could finish a lot of stories and were even able to re-write the frontend so it]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>It was a very productive sprint. We could finish a lot of stories and were even able to re-write the frontend so it
only uses ReactJS instead of NextJS. üéâ The only big story still open is the setup for the offline functionality. But it is
almost done.</p><h1>Sprint Planning</h1><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="sprint-goals">Sprint Goals:<a class="hash-link" href="#sprint-goals" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>Simple offline functionality finished (load list of tours even in offline mode)</li><li>Finish user authentication: Auto logout, Refresh token, Sign up</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="vacation">Vacation<a class="hash-link" href="#vacation" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>Sabrina: 11.6. - 19.6.</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="retro">Retro<a class="hash-link" href="#retro" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>We are very happy with the past sprint. We could finish a lot of important stories and think we are on a good way. üëå</li></ul>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>sprint</category>
            <category>planning</category>
            <category>review</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Development Meeting 4]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/development-meeting-4</link>
            <guid>development-meeting-4</guid>
            <pubDate>Tue, 31 May 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[This bi-weekly meeting was to show Tobias, our supervisor, our current progress.]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>This bi-weekly meeting was to show Tobias, our supervisor, our current progress.</p><p>We showed our current progress, including</p><ul><li>Our last sprint</li><li>Our current sprint goals</li><li>Quick demo for our current progress</li></ul><p>Tobias asked about our approach to user management and whether we're using a library. Since we're using a very basic
setup, we're (currently) not using any user or rights library, but we might start using one if we find one. On that
note, we also discussed some approaches for handling JWT token and token refresh.</p><p>We also had some questions which we addressed:</p><ul><li><a href="https://github.com/gipfeli-io/gipfeli-frontend/issues/31" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"><strong>Frontend bug</strong></a>: We analyzed the problem with Tobias and
quickly found a solution. Besides, we also got some feedback regarding code quality.</li><li><strong>Redux for state management</strong>: We were wondering whether we should use Redux for state management. Tobias said that,
given our current scope, it might be overkill, though our considerations were valid in that state would provide us
with some cleaner code - however, it would require more investement and learning and might be overkill.</li><li><strong>Using React context</strong>: Since we do not want to overuse context, we showed our usage of context and Tobias said that
we're using it correctly.</li><li><strong>Should we drop next.js</strong>: So far, next.js has proven to be rather cumbersome to use; and also the documentation is
rather bad. Since we're not using any of the SSR capabilities (which we can't since we rely on custom data for each
request), we were wondering whether we should drop it in favor of a pure React application. At this point, we're still
able to drop it and the move should be feasible since next.js is basically a supercharged wrapper around React. Tobias
said that it's okay to switch and that these are valid concerns - if we're not really using the framework (or not to
the full extent), there is no reason for keeping it.</li></ul><p>After our meeting, we decided to go the oure React route - also because the offline functionality seems to be more
straightforward to implement when not using next.js.</p>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>general</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Sprint 3 Review & Sprint 4 Planning]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/sprint-3-review-sprint-4-planning.md</link>
            <guid>sprint-3-review-sprint-4-planning.md</guid>
            <pubDate>Tue, 24 May 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[We added too many tickets and couldn't finish the whole sprint.]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>We added too many tickets and couldn't finish the whole sprint.
The integration of the map took more time than expected and couldn't be finished in time. But we still could finish a lot of
open tickets and create a good foundation for the upcoming review.</p><h1>Sprint Planning</h1><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="sprint-goals">Sprint Goals:<a class="hash-link" href="#sprint-goals" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>Finish map integration incl. setting of start and end point</li><li>Integrate api endpoints</li><li>Offline functionality concept finished</li><li>Offline functionality setup finished</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="retro">Retro<a class="hash-link" href="#retro" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>We did some work that was not in the sprint (client side vs. server side props) which delayed the other tasks</li><li>For the next sprints we want to reduce the amount of stories to work on</li><li>But nonetheless: We are very happy with the things we could solve</li></ul>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>sprint</category>
            <category>planning</category>
            <category>review</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Development Meeting 3]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/development-meeting-3</link>
            <guid>development-meeting-3</guid>
            <pubDate>Tue, 17 May 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[This bi-weekly meeting was to show Tobias, our supervisor, our current progress.]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>This bi-weekly meeting was to show Tobias, our supervisor, our current progress.</p><p>We showed our current progress, including</p><ul><li>Documentation</li><li>Frontend with backend integration</li><li>Testing implementation</li></ul><p>Tobias mentioned we should not waste too much time on CICD issues, which is why we decided to postpone database tests to
a later stage and focus on unit tests.</p>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>general</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Sprint 2 Review & Sprint 3 Planning]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/sprint-2-review-sprint-3-planning.md</link>
            <guid>sprint-2-review-sprint-3-planning.md</guid>
            <pubDate>Tue, 10 May 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[We could finish almost all the stories except the ones that were trying]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>We could finish almost all the stories except the ones that were trying
to use TypeOrm with Cloud Sql.
Currently, the frontend and backend can communicate with each other so we
can log in with a dummy user.</p><p>Decisions: <a href="/general/decision-log">Decision Log</a></p><h1>Sprint Planning</h1><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="sprint-goals">Sprint Goals:<a class="hash-link" href="#sprint-goals" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>Finish setting up the database integration</li><li>Add all the view components (mock the data)</li><li>All Api endpoints mocked</li><li>Have basics of architecture documented</li><li>Offline functionality concept finished</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="retro">Retro<a class="hash-link" href="#retro" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>We both are happy with how the sprint went even though we could not finish all the tasks.</li></ul>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>sprint</category>
            <category>planning</category>
            <category>review</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Development Meeting 2]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/development-meeting-2</link>
            <guid>development-meeting-2</guid>
            <pubDate>Tue, 03 May 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[This bi-weekly meeting was to show Tobias, our supervisor, our current progress.]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>This bi-weekly meeting was to show Tobias, our supervisor, our current progress.</p><p>We showed our current progress, including</p><ul><li>Documentation</li><li>Deployments</li><li>Current frontend progress with skeleton pages</li></ul><p>We also discussed our development workflow and our milestone planning. All in all, it seems like we are on track.</p><p>As an <strong>improvement</strong>, Tobias pointed out that we should link our code to the issues. We agreed to do this in line with
our development workflow by assigning our pull requests to the corresponding issue(s). That way, one can look at the
issue and directly see what has been changed. Since we also decided to add more descriptions to our issues, this will
allow any bystander to grasp what the issue was about.</p>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>general</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Development Meeting 1]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/development-meeting-1</link>
            <guid>development-meeting-1</guid>
            <pubDate>Sun, 01 May 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[In this meeting, we defined our Definition of Done and fleshed out our milestone planning.]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>In this meeting, we defined our Definition of Done and fleshed out our milestone planning.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="definition-of-done">Definition of Done<a class="hash-link" href="#definition-of-done" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><p>We decided to only specify the Definition of Done for our issues. The project-wide Definition of Done (i.e. in relation
to feature completeness) can be found in our Master Thesis contract.</p><p>For more details, see our <a href="/general/definition-of-done">Definition of Done</a>.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="milestone-planning">Milestone Planning<a class="hash-link" href="#milestone-planning" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><p>We decided on four milestones that allow us for some flexibility while also guaranteeing that we meet the criteria for
the tech review.</p><p>For more details, see the <a href="/general/milestones-planning">Milesontes and Planning section</a>.</p>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>general</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Sprint 1 Review & Sprint 2 Planning]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/sprint-1-review-sprint-2-planning</link>
            <guid>sprint-1-review-sprint-2-planning</guid>
            <pubDate>Mon, 25 Apr 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[These are the notes for the sprint 1 review and sprint 2 planning.]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>These are the notes for the sprint 1 review and sprint 2 planning.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="review">Review<a class="hash-link" href="#review" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>We currently do not have a DoD, but we don't need it for those tickets as it was prep work</li><li>We could close all the tickets in the sprint. Setup of the project incl. deployment is done.</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="retro">Retro<a class="hash-link" href="#retro" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>We both are happy with how the sprint went. </li><li>We planned enough work and could finish all the tasks in time.</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="planning">Planning<a class="hash-link" href="#planning" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>Sprint Goals: <ul><li>Landing page finished</li><li>Login possible with predefined user (no registration etc.)</li><li>DB setup finished</li><li>DoD finished</li></ul></li></ul>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>sprint</category>
            <category>review</category>
            <category>planning</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Sprint 1: Kickoff]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/sprint-1-kickoff</link>
            <guid>sprint-1-kickoff</guid>
            <pubDate>Tue, 12 Apr 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[The first sprint begins! Besides the initial sprint planning, we also discussed some organizational questions with our]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>The first sprint begins! Besides the initial sprint planning, we also discussed some organizational questions with our
supervisor Tobias.</p><p><strong>Sprint #1 goals</strong></p><ul><li>Have the basic deployment pipeline for frontend/backend/deployment up and running</li><li>Have the basic infrastructure (Google Cloud Run) up and running</li><li>Have an initial set of wireframes/screen layouts ready</li></ul><p>As an important decision, we also agreed on our branching strategy.</p><p>The following questions were discussed with Tobias.</p><p><strong>Can we opensource our code? This would allow for more flexibility in the free plan on Github.com</strong></p><ul><li>According to Tobias, this is not an issue. However, he asked us to discuss this with Luc to get an official</li><li>response.</li><li><em>Update 17/04/22: We received official confirmation that this approach is fine.</em></li></ul><p><strong>Can we use Auth0?</strong></p><ul><li>Yes, this is fine.</li></ul><p><strong>What is required in terms of documentation, meetings, milestones, definition of done?</strong></p><ul><li>Documentation:<ul><li>accounts for roughly 1/3 of the final grade</li><li>Should be written for a developer well-versed in the technology, but new to the project</li><li>Should cover the domain, architecture, models, technical behaviours and use cases/sequential flows for some of the
more complicated cases</li><li>Wireframes should be conceptually correct</li><li>As for the <strong>first milestone</strong> (the technical review in June), the documentation shall offer a quick and thorough
overview of the project</li><li>A decision log should be kept in a central location</li><li>The documentation can be spread across various services, but should have a single central entrypoint</li></ul></li><li>Meetings with supervisor:<ul><li>Once every two weeks in the beginning</li><li>Might be reduced later on</li></ul></li><li>Milestones:<ul><li>We should use milestones</li><li>The first milestone will be the tech review, after that, milestones can be e.g. the release of a complex features.
2-3 are optimal.</li><li>There should be a graphical overview with milestones and sprints, not technical.</li></ul></li><li>Testing depth:<ul><li>Not all testing types are required and no 100% coverage is expected</li><li>Choose tests wisely and document any decisions</li></ul></li><li>Definition of done:<ul><li>Required</li></ul></li><li>Language:<ul><li>Can be English, but should be discussed with Luc.</li><li><em>Update 17/04/22: We received official confirmation that this approach is fine.</em></li></ul></li></ul><p><strong>Best practices for sharing types across repositories?</strong></p><ul><li>Various approaches exist - the package one can be clean but takes a lot of effort to maintain.</li><li>In general, we should start with duplicate types and only if we have the time, we can try the shared approach.</li></ul><h1>Time tracking</h1>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>sprint</category>
            <category>planning</category>
            <category>general</category>
        </item>
        <item>
            <title><![CDATA[Kick Off gipfeli.io]]></title>
            <link>https://www.gipfeli.io/meeting-notes/kickoff</link>
            <guid>kickoff</guid>
            <pubDate>Fri, 08 Apr 2022 00:00:00 GMT</pubDate>
            <description><![CDATA[In order to kick things off, we decided to start with a very general kick off meeting.]]></description>
            <content:encoded><![CDATA[<p>In order to kick things off, we decided to start with a very general kick off meeting.</p><p>This meeting was not yet part of any sprint, but rather designed as a setup-meeting for all things to come.</p><p>The following points were discussed.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="time-tracking">Time tracking<a class="hash-link" href="#time-tracking" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><p>We decided to use the <a href="https://clockify.me/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Clockify.me</a> service. This service allows time tracking with detailed
descriptions and in various projects. This will allow us to keep track of our invested time as well as how much time we
spend developing and time in meetings.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="prototype-content">Prototype content<a class="hash-link" href="#prototype-content" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><p>As a first milestone, we see the tech review in early June. The goal there is to have a walking skeleton with most of
the architectural decisions set in stone. As such, we agreed on the following features that should be working in a
prototypical fashion:</p><ul><li>Staging Environment with auto deployment</li><li>Login for existing users (without management functions and profile functions)</li><li>List of existing tours</li><li>CRUD functionality for tours</li><li>Offline functionality (at least conceptually, does not have to work yet)</li></ul><p>This set of features will allow us to showcase most of our application and architectural ideas, and it requires to have
a working infrastructure ready. We also see the offline functionality as one of the most critical aspects, so we want to
focus on that as well.</p><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="development-process-and-timeplans">Development process and timeplans<a class="hash-link" href="#development-process-and-timeplans" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><p>As per our thesis agreement, we will use an agile, Scrum-inspired approach. Therefore, we agreed on the following
cornerstones:</p><ul><li><p>Sprints are 2 weeks long, leading us to 11 sprints in total.</p></li><li><p>We do not use the product owner/scrum master roles explicitly, since this does not really make sense in a team of two.
However, we will jointly manage our backlog both from a product owner and developer perspective, and we will help each
other to facilitate our development.</p></li><li><p>We will use a modified subset of the typical Scrum ceremonies. They are at fixed intervals so as to guarantee a degree
of consistency.</p><ul><li><code>Weekly</code>: Serves as our daily - we will discuss what has been achieved, what is being worked on and where issues
arose. This meeting is <strong>timeboxed to 20 minutes</strong> and is scheduled to happen <strong>each Tuesday at 18:00</strong>.</li><li><code>Sprint ending</code>: At the end of each sprint, we will hold a <strong>1-hour long</strong> meeting covering the sprint review,
retrospective and planning for the next sprint. This meeting will be held on Tuesday as well, bi-weekly, whenever
a new sprint starts.</li></ul></li><li><p>We use <a href="https://github.com/orgs/gipfeli-io/projects/1" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">a shared Github Project</a> with both repository-specific tickets
and overall tickets. They are organized in several buckets and will be used for our sprintplanning ("iterations" in
Github projects). The following labels exist:</p><ul><li><code>Backlog</code>: All tickets that come up during development or that have not been planned yet</li><li><code>Sprint Backlog</code>: Tickets that are used for a given iteration (and have the iteration label attached)</li><li><code>In Progress</code>: Tickets that are in development</li><li><code>PR pending</code>: Tickets that are in technical review</li><li><code>Testing</code>: Tickets that can be tested during the sprint review, i.e. they are already merged to staging</li><li><code>Done</code>: Tickets that have been tested and can be deployed as a release artifact.</li></ul></li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="various-technical-discussions-and-decisions">Various technical discussions and decisions<a class="hash-link" href="#various-technical-discussions-and-decisions" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>We will be using <a href="https://mui.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Material UI</a> for frontend components</li><li>We will try to use <a href="https://next-auth.js.org/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">next-auth</a> and use <a href="https://auth0.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Auth0</a> as an identity provider.</li><li>We will try to use OpenAPI sepcifications and use
the <a href="https://docs.nestjs.com/openapi/introduction" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">corresponding nest.js plugin</a> for auto-generated docs.</li><li>As we have two repositories for frontend and backend, we should discuss how we handle shared types. Possibilities are
custom npm packages or no sharing at all.</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="further-unsorted-notes">Further unsorted notes<a class="hash-link" href="#further-unsorted-notes" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>Offline functionality: incomplete tours (i.e. offline tours without maps) shall be designated as such</li><li>Users shall have two roles - administrators and users.</li></ul><h2 class="anchor anchorWithStickyNavbar_mojV" id="questions-for-supervisor">Questions for supervisor<a class="hash-link" href="#questions-for-supervisor" title="Direct link to heading">‚Äã</a></h2><ul><li>Can we opensource our code? This would allow for more flexibility in the free plan on Github.com</li><li>Can we use Auth0?</li><li>What is required in terms of documentation, meetings, milestones, definition of done?</li><li>Best practices for sharing types across repositories?</li></ul>]]></content:encoded>
            <category>general</category>
        </item>
    </channel>
</rss>